on a sunday morning we miss the greatest
thing that god has for us he says he
we are to come together um and
build relationships build community
and so that's why we love giving that space
um between kind of the kids transitioning out
and the start of being able to walk through god's
word so i hope you guys enjoyed that i hope you
got to meet somebody new and connect with them
um but excited today we're going to continue
in the book of ephesians we're going to be in
ephesians chapter six uh starting in verse four
and i don't know did you end up having
the other three verses or not okay don't
worry about it then we're good so we'll be in
verse four um if you don't have a bible with
you here's my encouragement number one we do
have a bible back here on our next steps table
you can go get one now you can take one home with
you that's our free gift to you if you do not have
a bible app i encourage you to get one i love the
youversion bible app it's something that i use
each and every week it allows me to take my bible
with me on my phone go through devotionals things
like that and so that's just an encouragement to
you if you don't have a copy of god's word it can
go with you wherever you go it is free so i
would love for you to turn there if you have
ephesians chapter six verse four um so
what we've been doing is we've been walking
through the book of ephesians since about
january i think most of us have probably
remembered that we started in january and
we've kind of stopped here there with a few
other messages but what we've learned in the book
of ephesians is really all that god has done for
us the first three chapters talks about all that
god has done for us he's chose us he loves us he
adopted us he saved us he gave us the holy spirit
he's given us the power to live a life worthy of
the gospel he's given us all these things and
because of all that god has done for us we've
learned over the last couple of chapters we should
walk then worthy of the calling that god has given
us because all that god's done for us we should
walk worthy of our calling as followers of jesus
and so we're going to continue that theme really
through today through what it looks like for a
father to walk in his faith based upon what god
has done for him he should live that out in the
life of being a father and no i didn't plan for
this text on this day it just literally happened
to plan out this way and so i'm i'm always
glad whenever god does that he'll just kind of
drop a text in and it fits on father's day so um
here's just an encouragement if you are a mother
in the room or you haven't had kids yet and you're
wondering hey does this apply to me this can apply
to you yes absolutely i think this is also not
just the father's responsibility but the mother's
responsibility or the future responsibility if
you're a grandparent how you can help raise kids
right and so i think that's so important for us
but i want to start off by asking this question
dads grandparents do you want to make a difference
in your kids life or your future kids life yes i
would hope so you want to make a major impact that
it will change their life not only for eternity
but to change their life as to when they become
adults that they'll be successful not only at life
but really even just as a christ follower and so
i would say all of us would want that right but
let me ask this question have um you and again
the group this size i know there's gonna be some
that would say hey it's a negative but have you
been influenced by your father in a positive or
negative way in your life yes no i mean i would
say this and i know that right there should
be everybody raising their hands the answer is
fathers make an impact positively or negatively
in everyone's life in some way of their absence
or their presence and what we're going to learn
today is the important role of the father in the
home and just to even say this the important role
of the father in the church if you do a little bit
of research a mother that comes to faith in christ
will actually get her family to come to church
and come to faith in christ 17 of the time but a
father that comes to faith in christ will actually
get his family to church and to salvation 93
of the time so fathers lead the charge when it
comes from a spiritual relationship with jesus
here's just another thought as i was reading
about this is children who live absent from
their biological fathers on average are more
likely to be poor experience educational health
emotional and psychological problems be victims
of child abuse and engage in criminal behavior
more than their peers who lived with a married
biological mother and father and so that's
not to say just so you know when you hear this
this is not to say if you're living in a split
home or if you're living in a home who has had
separation in it that it is bad what i'm saying is
that it is an important role for the father
to play it's the important role the father
if you're a stepfather or maybe you're a single
parent don't don't hear what i'm not saying you
have an important role as well but it's just
this understanding that when we do research we
know that the father plays an important role this
this ministry here pathway has a father service
and what that is is to help these fathers who have
uh basically had a child that they didn't expect
and now they're trying to figure out how to
be a father and they have somebody who who is
by the name of warren that walks with them to
learn how to be a godly father and i love that
because again they recognize the important role of
the father and so we will learn a little bit more
about that today and my hope is dads that you will
look at this as not a weight of hey man i've got
an important role but it's an opportunity you know
i i'm telling you this i'm a guy that looks at a
lot of things in life as a glass half empty i know
that's bad i should be a positive guy all the time
but what that does is when i do that it puts
pressure on me whenever i look at things as
an opportunity class half full um it changes
my perspective so today i hope that you'll
you'll listen into this text you'll see as an
opportunity to be a better father better example
and again this really applies to everybody uh when
we talk about this as well so you'll get something
out of it but paul is talking directly to christ
waller sophia is talking about a father in this
example it does take somebody giving their lives
to christ first before they can live this way
i think when we tried to be a great father a great
parent or a great aunt or uncle or grandparent
apart from relationship with jesus we're
missing the key part to be successful in that
and so i hope that you'll kind of hear that
in this that it's so important for us to know
that so let's look at this scripture rather than
continue to hear me just talk about it let's let's
jump in and see what god's word says so it says in
ephesians chapter 6 verse 4 it says fathers don't
stir up anger in your children but bring them
up in the training and instruction of the lord
so there's a lot in this one verse um a lot
we don't want to miss the keys to it so the
first thing here is paul is describing several
responsibility a father has towards their children
in order to make a lasting impact again as fathers
as mothers as parents if we want to make a lasting
impact on our kids to see them be successful in
life not just in the worldly way but in a godly
way these are key things so i hope that you lean
in and you say i want to hear this because there's
something here so the first one is he must not
promote or provoke them and so we'll see this kind
of at the beginning paul says do not stir up anger
in your children and so we just got done last week
dealing with these verses children obey
your parents in the lord for this is right
right honor them and so we see the kids
responsibility but it's also the father's
responsibility to not provoke their children
to anger to provoke them to disobeying
and things like that and so this is where paul
is getting at and so colossians 3 21 says this so
you'll learn a lot about colossians as
really ephesians and colossians could be read
right alongside each other because they speak a
lot to the same things and it says this fathers
do not exasperate your children so that they won't
become discouraged and so we see the opposite of
provoking your children is to encourage your
children so that makes sense right as fathers
as parents we should want to encourage our
children we shouldn't want to provoke them
and cause them to be stirred up and anger so look
this is where the part where i love getting you
guys engaged in this conversation let's talk
about this what are some ways we can or we do
sometimes discourage kids or maybe when you were
a kid what were some ways in which your parents
discouraged you accomplishments
you got an a and they're like eh
could have made an a plus
okay it's a good one what else
what are some ways that parents can
discourage their children or maybe
you were discouraged as a child by your parents
picking on them yeah yep yep absolutely
anybody else want to jump in there
expecting perfection yeah you don't expect that of
yourself though right yeah see i think this this
text was hard for me because what it does and i
share this with you guys a lot when i'm preparing
a text to share on sundays god rakes me over the
coals first and then i get to share it so i'm like
man what are some things that i've discouraged
my kids with and so here's a couple of things
that i came up with by saying one thing and doing
another you ever had parents say do what i say not
what i do that's discouraging to a child because
you're saying one thing but you're doing something
different and it just doesn't reconcile and
adults you know this if you're in the job force
and your boss says one thing and he does another
that frustrates you right so we get that idea of
that right by always blaming and never encouraging
right so it's you know not being so we're talking
about perfection right being critical by
being inconsistent and unfair and disciplined
um this is a fun one and we'll
get to this a little bit more is
uh there's times where you discipline them for
this for one thing so okay they didn't obey you
by you know listening to you the first time
but then the next time you don't even punish
them they they ask like nine times and you just
tell them stop asking right so like inconsistency
discourages a child because they don't
understand the boundaries um here's another
one tough for dads i've been there before making
promises and not following through with them
making promises and not falling through them so
we see those are things that discourage our kids
they're things in which causes them to have again
as a child they're learning they're developing
this new understanding of what it is to follow
their parents and we can discourage them in that
right we want them to obey us but we aren't
being consistent and sometimes the way we say
and how we act so an example for me
is i have a high expectation of myself
and because of that i tend to apply that to every
other person including my family so you go back to
this perfection right is my kids will do something
really well but it won't be perfect and i'm going
to talk about the thing in which they didn't
do perfect rather than what they did well um
and again it's not telling your kids they should
be shouldn't be better because we want them to
be better but it's being critical first and then
not even talking about the the good because i mean
honestly you guys know this if somebody comes in
and they're like man you could have done a little
better but good job you don't even hear the good
job you hear they think i'm not good enough and so
that for me was just a reminder i don't do that
here's here's another one is your tone matters
um not only are words important but our tone right
when we talk to our kids and i know brittany's not
in here but one of the things that i've learned
with brittany is as a child for her her dad the
way he would yell it wouldn't be the words he
said i mean like he could say whatever she's like
that never bothered me his tone that discouraged
her she would shut down and so that affects kids
and how you are disciplining them and so we see
again talking about this is that he's describing
again several responsibilities for fathers but
i would even say his parents um towards their
children is again to make it lasting in pakistan
to not provoke them but then the second thing we
see is to to nurture them and so this is kind of
where we see this it says do not stir up anger in
your children but bring them up in training
and so to bring them up is to nurture them
and so whenever you think about fathers sometimes
fathers are not nurturing and that sounds like
motherly right that sounds like motherly but as
fathers we should do that here's what a father
typically says well i'm nurturing my child because
i provided food i'd shelter and a place to sleep
isn't that enough i mean that's the dad's
responsibility i go to work i pay the bills
i'm good enough the answer is that's not
good enough because really what you're
doing is you're providing a need but you're not
providing the emotional and spiritual leadership
that god's designed you to give you provide the
physical but not the emotional and the spiritual
so dad's um what can we do here's here's this is
where i'm hoping and and moms you can voice into
this grandparents you can voice in this future
appearance whatever you are in this room you
can answer this question what would it look like
for you to encourage your children emotionally
and spiritually or what does it look like
maybe you do it what does it look like
pray with him that's great what else
grow yourself right so if you
prioritize your relationship with jesus
you're actually prioritizing your kids because
you're setting an example it's good what else
yes pokemon oh my gosh it is a craze and
i don't know how many times my son wants
to tell me about it and there's sometimes i
just don't want to hear about it but i'm like
you know what son tell me all about charm
mander whatever you're i don't even know
i know pikachu okay it's okay um so yes
care about what they care about i don't
know my daughter's been dancing since she
was three she loves showing me her dances
and so it's just me putting on my phone
it's it's me getting away from tv or
my conversation with brittany and saying yeah show
me it's caring that's great i love that what else
i i did this the other day i went to target
simple 10 minute trip for us because it's right
across the road and i asked tegan to go with me
we rode in the car and we just talked about life
that's all we did just spent time with her right
and so there's so many things as a father we think
about a father's figure in this we tend to pass
off the emotional to the mother the nurturing
we pass off the spiritual to the youth pastor
and the children's minister just being honest
anybody ever get dropped off to youth ministry
or children's ministry as a kid and your parents
went home or went grocery shopping i would
tell you the last church i was at in oklahoma
i would say 60 to 70 percent of
the parents never went to church
but the kids did so what they were doing was they
were saying do what i say not what i so one of the
greatest ways a father can lead spiritually
and emotionally is actually lead by example
right coming back to following jesus by example
and so again he's saying to nurture them and so
um nowhere in the bible this is an
encouragement nowhere in the bible does the
outsourcing of the child's spiritual relationship
with jesus passed on to anybody else but the
parents here's a great example deuteronomy 6 6-7
says these words that i am giving you today are to
be in your heart repeat them to your children talk
about them when you sit in your house and when you
walk along the road and when you lie down and when
you get up so the question is moms dads are we
bringing our children up and training and
instruction like the lord is saying and so
here's just some examples from this text this is
i just kind of took this text and i said okay what
would this look like this deuteronomy text what
would it look like in our life so it says first
we are to have the words on our heart so that
means dads moms follow jesus they gotta be in
you first if you expect your kids to follow jesus
if you expect your kids to act right and obey
you you need to start by following jesus obeying
your father in heaven setting the example
so they need to be on your heart the words need to
be on your heart number two it says that you are
to repeat them to your children so you will repeat
to your children what you're learning share how to
follow jesus consistently talk to them and that's
where it says here talk about them everywhere you
go and i love this talk about them when you sit
in your house and when you walk along the road
everywhere you go talking about the
elements of jesus the air the trees creation
why you chose to not flip the person off
that cuts you off okay setting the example by
talking to them about these things wherever
you go here's the last one i love this it
says when you lie down and when you wake up
parents the greatest way to be an influence
emotionally and spiritually in your kids
lives is setting the pace in the morning
spiritually with him prioritizing god time
with him prioritizing praying with him but
also in the evenings evenings are my favorite
time listen to the kids fridays and saturdays
this is what we do before prayer time this is
how we decide who prays rock paper scissors
they love it rock paper scissors we all play it
now sterling if he was in here i'm telling you
this kid has to play rock paper scissors with
us all he used to he always do scissors and he
always got beat but he's starting to change
and last night he won three or four times so
the point is they love that emotional time five
ten minutes and they love to pray well how did
they learn how to pray well i started my youngest
son doesn't pray but the rest of them they do
and they're praying their own words and what god
lays on their heart how do we do that because we
started that when my daughter was three my oldest
daughter she's now 12. so nights are so important
so we talk about it in the mornings and we talk
about in the evenings we talk about everywhere we
go but the only way we'll have the words to talk
about with our kids is if it is in our heart and
in our minds so i would like to say i'm i'm like
man i'm knocking this out of the park as a dad
but i'm going to give props to brittany and i'm
gonna tell you that she and she's not in here
but she's a living example of this and let me tell
you how she's a living example of this so in the
morning this is what you'll hear brittany she
wakes up early before any of us she has to work
in the morning she works usually somewhere between
an hour and a half to two hours before most of us
get up and go in the mornings as soon as she's
done you know what she says i gotta have my jesus
time life needs to happen right the kids probably
need to get dressed or something else she says no
i'm gonna go have my jesus time and she tells
the kids that so she sits down and it may be
five minutes some days sometimes it's 30.
she has a jesus time you know she tells them
hey you need to go have your jesus time i hear
every morning you need to make sure you're
either watching one of your your bible shows or
you're getting it in your devotional so she makes
sure they're doing that and she she says before
anything else before you finish this she does it
she's consistently i'm telling you i'll listen to
her she's consistently sharing about who jesus is
through their school through their daily
activities she's disciplining them she's
usually making sure that they understand that
throughout that she also um has them follow her
basically practical application i don't know how
many times i've seen her use practical application
in situations how she's dealing with things and so
she's consistently doing that she encourages again
them to start their day with jesus and so yes i
would say i do have a part in that but i believe
she has set the standard and it just reminded
me i've got to up my game why because dads
need to lead the charge dads don't need to leave
the emotional and spiritual development of their
kids to their mom only again so let me let me step
out here if you are only parent if you're only a
mom and there is no father present you have to be
that for them and your heavenly father will help
you do that so that's not to say oh gosh you're
just what do you do but but it's saying if you do
have a father and a home no matter what it is and
grandparents if they don't have a father in home
step into that role it matters they make a big
impact whenever they lead the charge in this so
again i think that was a deep one for me
whenever i got into it so paul describes again
these several responsibilities that he has for a
father towards his children to not provoke them to
nurture them and this is the fun one to discipline
them dads you know you love disciplining right
i remember my grandpa my dad too i remember my
grandpa would always threaten us with now he
never used it on us he'd just threaten us with
it but my grandpa would just pull it out and it
was just in such a way he'd pull this belt out he
never spanked us but his threat was good enough
right it was the discipline my grandma would go
to him to discipline why because he kind of set
that standard but you ever had a parent or maybe
you parents have done this before you ever avoided
discipline you ever avoided disciplining your
kids or your parents avoided disciplining you
they would just kind of ignore you anybody yeah i
do that sometimes with my kids right they're doing
something i know is wrong but i just i'm too
tired or here we go dad's mama take care of it
and i'm learning this and sometimes i'll be
like mama take care of it she's been dealing
with it all day and dad needs to step in because
again i think dad sets the standard with this
um and so he says this in in the text here he says
to bring them up in training and instruction and
so this is where we talk about this bringing
up um has to do with nurturing as well
the idea of learning through discipline um and so
even god does this this is just an encouragement
to us even god does this hebrews 12 6 says this
for the lord disciplines the one he loves and
punishes every son he receives so if the lord our
heavenly father disciplines us as followers of
jesus we should discipline our kids and so this is
just a and just a reminder we're not talking about
beating your kids that's not what we're talking
about we don't want to do that that is not right
but discipline is in different forms it's
helping them know what the difference between
right and wrong difference between right and wrong
that's why your heavenly father disciplines you
he sees you on the wrong path he has something
better for you as a parent this is what i remember
i mean i've seen it happen before kids don't
touch the stove it's hot what do they do they
go and touch the stove they get burned and you
look at that was that discipline well it's a
learning experience because guess what they won't
touch the stove again because they got burned
well discipline's trying to prevent them from
that burn and sometimes when they push through
that discipline and they get in trouble or they
get something that causes them to go this isn't
right so we're actually helping our kids when we
discipline them we're not hurting them that's the
tough thing i mean you ever had your parents say
it's going to hurt me more than it hurts you i
didn't understand that concept until i became a
parent but i realized it's important to follow
through with discipline not ignore discipline as
a father and think that i'm gonna take care of it
right way and i think that's what's
important just a just a wise note
if you're frustrated with your kids and
you know you need to discipline them
take time send them to the room right this is
where we talk about we're not talking about
abusing your child well we're talking about
discipline then so don't just ignore them
send them to the room take a deep breath ask the
lord how to discipline them and discipline them
um be protective of that because again dads go
back to we're not supposed to stir them up in
anger we're not supposed to treat them in a way
that's not godly right and uh here here's just
one last thing if if you think um you'll be better
with the next child and you're not really taking
care of the children you're not disciplining them
well but the next child to do that that's actually
a lie you typically discipline your second third
fourth child less than you do your other ones
we won we need to stop that we need to be
consistent because that's important for
the kids to see that right so
just a reminder parents if you
um lack and discipline your kids and they don't
see that authority and respect your authority how
are they supposed to respect their authority in
heaven so when you're disciplining you you're
actually helping them be able to respect god the
father's relationship and their life in the future
so we're supposed to not provoke them we're
supposed to nurture them we're supposed
to discipline them but here's the last one
we're supposed to instruct and encourage them
so train your child up in a way and instruct
them in the lord and so it's more than actions
it's also our words and so again as a kid i hated
when my parents lectured me but parents don't stop
lecturing your kids what does that mean don't
stop telling them what it is the right thing
to do because they need to hear that not only be
shown that right i'm setting the example so 2nd
timothy 3 16-17 reminds me of this all scripture
is inspired by god and is profitable for teaching
for rebuking for correcting and training in
righteousness so the man of god may be complete
equipped for every good work so as a father let's
just look at this as an example as a father who's
following after jesus who has the word of god
in his heart needs to consistently not just say
i'm living my life out for jesus my kids
should follow me but to explain and share
the word of god and train and instruct your kids
it's it you're the one that leads by example um
again don't expect somebody else to do it
don't get don't wait till it's too late either
your kids need it so we shouldn't um again
think that it is someone else's job to train
up but it is ours to do that but this is
the second part i want us to look at is
encourage them he says to instruct them
training and instruct them but i still
look at this encouragement what does
it look like to encourage your kids
um you are your kid's biggest hero parents
grandparents you two my grandparents again
i love my mom and dad and they impacted me
as well but i was thinking my grandparents
um some of the things they would say to me
and believe in me made some of the greatest
impacts in my life that i can reflect back to
and i am the person i am today because of them
i think about this when i say something
in a way that encourages my kids
i see a light bulb come on in them and they
light up and you know what they see they see
god in me and they see someone who loves and
cares for them and i want to be that for them and
i was just reminded in this and so let me just
kind of share my share with my kids my kids um
have so many different things that they believe
god's gonna have them do whenever they get older
um and so here's what it looks like for my
daughter so my purpose as a father should be
to help them discover their purpose for god
and to really encourage them for that so my
daughter peyton wants to grow up and she wants
to be a dance teacher so what am i doing now
to help her fulfill that passion for the glory
of god let me show you what my son chanting and
you'll love this one my son channing ever since
i don't know seems like seven years old he wants
to be an nfl player and a pastor and i kind of
laughed it off for the longest time and that he
just kept talking about it so what am i doing
as a father to help him fulfill that call
in a godly way that he can do it for the glory of
god my daughter tegan she took this from my oldest
daughter when she was younger but she wants to
be a dolphin trainer which i'm like we're in ohio
but it's her dream at age seven and if you know
my daughter tegan you may not have a ton of
conversations with her she has compassion she will
take up for every person that's getting picked on
see that girl's got so much potential for the
lord and what am i doing as a father to encourage
and help her fulfill her call to follow jesus my
son sterling is only three but he loves his family
and he's cute as all get out what am i doing
to invest in my son let me just go outside of
the kids my wife um you know what she tells me
she says i just want to be a stay-at-home mom
i want to homeschool my kids and she likes to
invest in other ladies and she wants the space
to do that what am i doing as a husband to allow
her to fulfill that call guys let me let me tell
you where it starts men fathers grandparents
whoever you are in here it starts with you
what are you doing to follow your call what
are you doing to pursue your passion what god's
called you to do to be a godly father to have a
relationship with jesus to fulfill your passions
because as you fulfilled your call in your life
your kids will watch you they'll hear you and then
you help them fulfill theirs one of my goals i put
this down just i didn't plan to even share this
one of my goals as a person okay what kind of
stuff is what i believe is one of my passions
is to help people discover really their purpose
in their life right so we're a church just so you
know our mission statement is to help people
discover god's purpose for their life through
relationship with jesus that's really just my life
call it's just fleshed out through our church i
really believe that's my life call so i have a
goal to help 100 people fulfill their god-given
purpose what does that look like it's by believing
in them whenever they don't believe in themselves
it's by by talking and speaking life into them
and helping them find whatever god's called them
to do and to go do it fan the flame that god
has put inside of them parents why don't we do
that for our kids god's called us men to lead
the charge in that because they are the future
of the gospel spreading they're the
future of the church they're the future
of really life in itself right and so what can we
do to not miss that opportunity to encourage them
to be the best they can we already
talked about at the beginning right
the great ways we discourage our kids why don't we
change that around and start finding ways to ins
encourage them and believe in them because they're
going to have a lot of people in their life that
discourage them and we shouldn't be one of
them so let me kind of finish up this way
and paul gives us several responsibilities to not
provoke our children to nurture them to discipline
them to instruct and encourage them and i'm hoping
this does not discourage you right that weight
maybe that you feel as a father as a parent as
a grandparent whatever it is future parent i
want you to know it should be exciting that it's
given you the opportunity to raise the kids or
your future kids or your grandkids or an impact
whoever god's given you that you're here today
because god says i have a purpose for you
so what are you going to do to fulfill that
it starts with a relationship with jesus
and i you'll hear me say this every single
week because i don't want you to miss this
don't go try to live your life out without
following jesus first we think we have to figure
this out on our own but god's the only one that
can give us the ability through his word through
his spirit to live the way he's called us to live
and really the way that i think we all desire
to live so today if you haven't given your life
to jesus i encourage you to do that what does that
look like it means to confess that you have a need
for jesus confess that you're not perfect that
you need to turn from your sins the ways in
which you weren't following god and to begin to
follow him it sounds so simple but the answer is
it is god didn't want to complicate what it took
to follow him it just takes yes it takes yes
so if you want to do that today i'd love for you
to come and talk to me after service during our
time of invitation you can come talk to me i'd
love to talk to you about what it means to follow
jesus but for those of you who would say i already
have a relationship with jesus what does it mean
then what is my my takeaway today is everything
that was talked about whether it was to father
specifically or anybody else we should take a way
that we should help those around us encourage them
not provoke them right discipline our children
because it's good for them and instruct and
encourage them as well and during this time
of invitation i just want you to think through
what would god have you do right because that's
the thing i look across the room and i say this
everybody has a different picture of what
this looks like i've learned god's word
speaks to me new every day and so maybe god's
speaking you in a different way but during this
time of invitation this is the time for you
to reflect and say god what are you speaking
to me about what is it that i need to apply
to my life that i can take home from this
because god has a word for you specifically
and i pray that you consider that that you
begin to apply that and if there's any way that
i can help come talk to me because i want to be
here for you to walk through that so let's
pray lord jesus we love you lord and again
we're so thankful for your word
because it's truth it's it's um
it's convicting at times lord when i
look at this text as a father myself
of maybe the ways that i have not been encouraging
lord but i've been spending more time discouraging
my kids so lord can i be the first to
say um lord that that i need forgiveness
lord may i be the first to set the example
that today i tell my kids that on the ride home
lord it is so important for us to remember lord
that you are the heavenly father that sets the
example of love unconditionally
one that believes the best in us
and is encouraging us to fulfill our call but
lord may we be that today for our kids our
grandkids our future kids to the people around
us that we work with to our family members to
our church members lord may we encourage not
discourage that we build up not tear down
and uh lord may you get glory through all of it
and lord i just pray if there's someone in this
room that doesn't know you lord that if they want
to to know you or they have questions about what
it means to follow you through a relationship
with you lord may they come and talk to me
and not not put it off lord
but that may they come and ask
lord maybe there's someone in this room that's
wondering what their next step is as a father
as a parent as a follower of you lord i pray
that they also come and ask because lord it's
not that i have all the answers lord but i'm
here to encourage them to to find those answers
and uh lord i'm thankful for this church i'm
thankful for this opportunity to open your word
today and may it impact our lives lord for your
glory and we pray this in your heavenly name amen